in this video I'm going to be showing
you guys seven really amazing command
line tools that can be incredibly
helpful when working on the terminal now
I'm going to be showing all of these on
Mac OS but everything I'm going to be
showing you will also apply if you're
working on a Linux machine I'm also
going to be using home brew to install
all of the tools so if you're on a Mac
make sure that you have this installed
I'll have instructions on how to do this
along with everything else I'm going to
be showing you in the blog post Linked
In the description now the first tool
I'm going to be showing you is called
FCF this is a really fast and very use
useful fuzzy finder for the command line
I'm going to go ahead and install it by
doing Brew install
FCF and I'm using zsh so I'm going to
open up the config file with my editor
of choice I like to use neovim you can
use whichever text editor you prefer to
do this I'm going to do envin Tilda sl.
CSH HRC I'm going to go to the bottom of
this file and the first thing we need to
do is add the following this will set up
the FCF key bindings and fuzzy
completion I'm going to save this and
exit neovim and then I'm going to reload
the configuration like so now I can
start using FCF there's a lot of
different things you can do but one of
the primary use cases is to look for
files I've moved over to a different
directory here now the first thing I can
do is to run fzf that will open up the
fuzzy finder and then you can just start
typing to look for a specific file like
this I'm going to exit with contrl C
instead of doing this you'll probably
use one of the shortcuts for example
let's say I want to open a file with NE
I can do envm and then I can follow that
with contrl t and that will look for
files and directories under the
directory I'm currently in let's say I
want to open client. TS I can press
enter and then press enter to open it
with newm contrl t will allow you to
look for directories as well as
files and you can use this with a bunch
of different commands let's say I want
to do it with a VSS code I could do code
contrl T and look for client .ts and
press enter and enter and there you go
now it's open in VSS code now another
really convenient way of doing this is
by doing something like CD and you can
follow this with two stars and press tab
that'll automatically open up fzf and
it'll only show directories in the
results now I haven't mentioned how to
go through the results you can use crl j
and k crl n and contrl p or the down and
up arrows now let's say I want to go to
super base I can just type out something
like s and press enter and enter and I'm
in you can also use the double star
pattern with other commands let's say
you want to open up a file with your
editor I can do nbim star star Tab and
then look for what I want to
open or with vs code for example configo
and then you open it
up now you can also do this with SSH
this will allow you to look for recently
used IP addresses and host names and you
can also use this with the kill command
to kill a specific process you use -9 to
kill the process and you can use star
star tab let's say for example I want to
close notion which I currently have open
and then I can press enter and it'll
replace it with the process ID so you
can go ahead and kill it now when you're
using fzf I'm going to look for notion
again you can use the Tab Key to select
more than one result as well as shift
tab to deselect and if you press enter
it will include both of the results you
can also use fzf to work with
environment variables you can do unset
star star Tab and you can look through
environment variables here as well as
with
export and aliases so you can do unalias
to remove in Alias do star star Tab and
then look for the Alias finally you can
use controlr to look through the history
so I could look for one of these
commands and select it and then I can
run it if I start typing out a command
then the filtering will start from there
which is also really useful now how it
works by default is really really
helpful I'm going to add some extra
configurations to make it even nicer
what I'm going to do is install FD this
will replace the find command which is
what FCF uses by default to look for
files let's go ahead and install that
now I can open up the zshrc file like so
and then go to the bottom and add the
following first we're changing the
default command that is used to look for
files and directories we're using FD we
want to show hidden files strip the
current working directory and we do want
to exclude dogit directories FD by
default will ignore any files and
directories that are ignored with a dog
ignore file which is really nice because
we typically want to ignore these files
when we're searching for things now the
controlt key bind will use the default
command now this function here is for
the star start completion when looking
for files and directories this is very
similar to the default command and this
one here is for the star start tab
functionality but when looking for
directories like when you're doing CD
I'm going to save this and I'm going to
exit neovim and the last thing I'm going
to do is to add a script that makes it
really easy to work with Git along with
FCF I'm going to CD into my home folder
and I'm going to do git clone and the
following directory it's called
fzf-cache
[Music]
control and then do GH and that will
show different git
hashes let's say you want to do a diff
you could do git diff and then hold down
control and then press GH select one of
these and press enter and enter and
there you go let's say you want to check
out a branch you can do git check out
press down control and then do
GB you can take a look at the FCF git
repository to see a list of all of the
available key maps now the next command
line tool is called Bat we're going to
install it with home brew by doing Brew
install bat bat is a better version of
cat which is used to display the content
of a file in the terminal but with bat
you have syntax highlighting now that
we've installed it I can do something
like bat and let's use fzf to look for a
file I'm going to do star star Tab and
look for client and press enter and
enter again and you'll see that the
output is really nice with syntax
highlighting if I do up arrow and change
this with cat it's it's just much less
readable now bat has a bunch of
different themes you can use the
following command to see an example of
all of the different themes you just
have to replace this with a path to an
actual file I'm going to use DB client.
TS this command requires you to have FCF
installed now you can use control J and
K or the up and down arrows to look
through these different
themes if you find a theme on GitHub
that isn't one of the built-in themes
the first first time you're going to
install a new theme you want to run the
following command to create the
directory where all of the themes should
go and then you can move into this
directory with this following command
you'll see that it's config SLB SL
themes then you'll want to add the theme
you found online to this directory I'm
going to be installing a theme called
Tokyo night like so I'm using curl to do
this you'll see here this is the night
variation of the Tokyo night theme and
the file extension should be done TM
theme from what I understand this theme
in particular is normally compatible
with the Sublime Text Editor now you'll
see that the theme is now in this
directory the final thing you'll have to
do in order to use it is to do bat c--
build and I'm going to move back to
where I was at with CD and dash and I'm
going to rerun the command we used
earlier to see the different themes and
I can look for Tokyo night with fzf and
see an example of how it looks like
you'll see that the name is Tokyo knore
Knight I'm going to close this with
contrl C to use it as a default for bat
we can open up the zshrc file like so go
to the bottom and then add the following
to set the bat theme variable to Tokyo
knore night let's save this close neovim
and I'm going to Source the CSH HRC file
and then let's use bat and Then star
start Tab and look for DB SL client and
press enter and now the output will use
the Tokyo night my theme another really
useful tool that goes hand inhand with
bat is Delta which we can use to create
better looking diffs I'm going to
install it by doing Brew install g-
Delta and then to use Delta with Git for
when you're doing a git diff can do envm
till the.git config to open up your git
configuration file and then you can add
the following this will set up Delta I'm
going to save and quit and now I can do
git diff and I can use my shortcut
contrl GH and let's just pick one of
these hashes and press enter and enter
again and you'll see that the diff looks
a lot better and what's really cool as
well is that Delta will use the bat
theme that you're using to show the code
if you want to do side by side this you
can open up your git config and then add
here under Delta side by side is equal
to
true and then you can do get diff
and contrl G and let's go ahead and
choose two of them let's do Tab and tab
and press enter and enter again and the
diff now will be side by side now I also
want to show you guys how to integrate
bat with fzf previews but before we do
that I'm going to show you the next
really nice CLI tool I'm going to
install it like so it's
called eza which is basically a better
LS and now you can use eza to list the
files within a directory eza has a lot
of different options to make things look
a lot better than a less just to give
you an example you can do something like
eza D- color equals always to show with
colors and then we can use long to show
a lot more information and enable get
information as well let's say you want
to remove some of these you can use as a
color
always long I want to show git I don't
want the file size I do want the icon F
so this is always I don't want the time
the user or the
permissions you can also use eza to list
files in threee format you can do ea--
tree and you can limit the depth by
doing level and specify how many levels
down you want to go let's do two and
press enter all right I want to use this
command as my default I'm going to open
the CSH RC file like so go to the bottom
and I'm going to create an alias for LS
which is going to be that command that
way I can keep using LS which I'm really
used to but with the better
functionality of eza I'm going to save
in quit Source Z
HRC and now if I do LS it'll use the
Alias now that we have bat and eza
installed we can set up some previews
for when you're looking for things with
fzf I'm going to open the zshrc file
again like so go to the bottom and at
the end of before I'm configuring fzf
I'm going to add the following to set up
previews with fzf when I'm using contrl
T I'm going to be using bat to preview
the file and I'm limiting the file
content to 500 lines now I also want
previews when I'm using the star star
tab functionality like with CD so you
need to Define this function called FCF
comp run and use this switch statement
to set up the previews when I'm using CD
I'm going to use ASA in tree format to c
a preview of that directory if I'm
looking for environment variables with
export or unset I'm going to show its
value in the preview and for the default
I'm going to be using the bat preview
now I'm going to save and quit do Source
zsh HRC and now if I do control T if I
look for a file here like DB client
you'll see that it uses bat for the
preview with the color scheme that we
configured and you can scroll through
the preview with your mouse remember
that it's limited to 500 lines you can
also set up keymaps to do that if I do
CD star star tab instead it'll use eza
in tree format to show a preview of the
directory all right the next useful tool
is called tldr we're going to install it
by doing Brew install tlrc which is the
rust client for
tldr tldr is a huge collection of
community maintained help Pages for a
bunch of different command line tools
which basically have userfriendly
summaries to give you a quick general
idea on how to use a given tool as an
alternative to traditional Man pages for
example let's say you want to learn more
about how to use eza you can use tldr
ASA and it'll give you a bunch of useful
ways of using this tool of course if you
need to learn a lot more about the tool
and all of the different options that
are available then you would just use
regular Man pages with man and
eza now the next tool is also really
useful it has an interesting name it's
called the you can install it by using
Brew install
the and you can use this to autoc
correct a command that you accidentally
wrote the wrong way so to enable it
we'll open up the zshrc file go to the
bottom and then we'll add the following
this will set up the default Alias which
is just but you can also set up your own
custom Alias like FK or whatever else
you want to use for this let's save and
quit then we can reload our config like
so now I'm going to use Homebrew to
install the next command line tool we're
going to use let's say I type this wrong
so that's missing an e and I can do
install the tool is called zide and I
press enter that didn't work so now I
can type and press enter and it'll autoc
correct it if you have more than one
result you can use the up and down arrow
keys to choose the one you want I'm
going to press enter to correct it and
it'll automatically run it for me pretty
cool all right so we just installed zide
which is the next tool that I want to
show you guys this is a better
alternative to CD and it's really really
handy with zide you can use Z instead of
CD to move into a directory to finish
setting it up let's open our zshrc file
go to the bottom and then you'll want to
add the following to set up zide let's
save and quit and let's Source our
config file and now we can start using Z
to navigate to different directories
when you do this it'll remember the
directories you've visited and make it a
lot easier to go back to them in the
future I'm just going to press enter to
go back to our home directory and I'm
going to do Z and go back to where we
were I'm going to do Tilda
/dev yoube SL spell kit blog so now I've
visited this directory with Z again go
back to home and now I can do Z and just
type out a string that matches with the
last directory in the path that I want
to go to so I can type just spelt for
example and press enter and it'll
automatically go back to the directory
spel kit blog and you can do this from
anywh I have another directory called
blog in the YouTube directory let's go
up a level all of the typical CD
commands will work with z and let's go
to the blog directory then I'm going to
go back to Home by doing Z and press
enter now I can do Z and type blog and
because there are two possible results I
can do space and tab and it'll show me
the different possible directories I can
go to with FCF let's say I want to go to
spelit blog and then I press enter and
it'll will take me to it before I finish
I want to do some final configurations
I'm going to open the e as HRC file go
to the bottom I'm going to add an alias
here for CD and that's going to be equal
to Z this is so that I can still keep
using CD as I'm just really used to that
now the last thing I want to do is to
modify the theme for fzf I'm going to go
to where I start setting up all the
stuff for fzf and I'm going to add the
following here I'm defining some
different colors for my theme and then
for the fzf default Ops I'm adding the
following to set up the colors this
particular theme goes well with my
current alacrity setup I'm going to save
and quit and then do
Source Z as HRC and now I can use CD
instead of Z so I can do CD and spelt
and press enter and that'll take me back
to my spell kit blog now if I do envm
star star tab you'll see that it now
uses the new theme you can look for
other themes online and there's an FCF
theme generator where you can easily
Define your own theme I'll have a link
to the generator in the description all
right you guys that's it for this video
I hope you enjoyed it I'm planning on
doing a video on how I set up alacrity
which is the terminal that I used in
this video and I've been using recently
if you want to stay up to date with any
new videos I post on the channel make
sure to subscribe down below and if
you're interested in setting up neovim
exactly like I have I have a complete
stepbystep guide where we take neoven
from scratch and turn it into a pretty
amazing editor for the terminal then you
can click on this video right here see
see you guys in the next one peace